---
layout: post
title: "The Best Laid Plans"
date: 2015-09-30 18:49:32 -0500
comments: true
categories: 
- Software Process
---
> The best laid plans of mice and men often go awry.

If I can, I would like to take you into my imagination.  Let us pretend we work
at Widgets Inc.  Now, Widgets Inc has been around for awhile and is going
through a phase in it's life where the technical decisions made by previous
generations no longer seem viable.  Our company struggles keeping it's current
infrastructure going, while at the same time wants to make some serious changes
to it.  One of the biggest challenges, we believe, is our lack of leadership in
the company.  If we had leadership with a grand vision to unify and replace all
of our old architecture things would be so much better! 

<!-- more -->

If this sounds like more than imagination, then that's because it is. I have
worked with multiple companies in the past that struggle with this.  The tech
field is changing rapidly.  If that wasn't enough, the turnover rate for high
level tech leadership changes pretty quickly as well.  With both of these
factors to consider; how can a company come up with a unified plan to resolve
old architecture and produce new functionality that will out-live the previous
generation?

The answer is we probably can't.  At least not in the magical way we wish we
could.  Every software developer loves the idea of _green fielding_ a project
to fix and unify the problems of the past.  This only serves to perpetuate the
problem as we re-discover the underlying issues in old projects.  By the end,
we've normally produced a more up-to-date mutation of the previous generation
software.  It will solve _most_ of the problems we had and introduce new exotic
issues.

How can we avoid this technological hamster-wheel of misery?  So far what seems
to work the best that I've found is to avoid grandiosity.  Plans to alleviate
pain points in small steps through refactoring are the longest lived, best
changes.  Grand plans are an anti-pattern that we can easily fall into.  Try to
solve small things by changing them, not replacing them.  You'll find that in
time you will have done that anyway as a side-effect, but without the end result
of painting yourself into a new corner.

**TLDR;** If you have a solution with a grand plan that requires months of work
and is meant to completely replace your current software you're probably doing
it wrong. 
